University because you've got a different opinion to your friend,
NOTE CONF
or a different opinion to what's important to you.
It doesn't mean that you're getting it wrong or you're
NOTE CONF
here for the wrong person.
So if you can head out to lunch, considering that
NOTE CONF
that would be really useful, we will come back at
25 past.
NOTE CONF
So it's a pretty quick break.
So grab a sandwich, eat it, and then come and
NOTE CONF
head back in.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Thanks very much.
Oh.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Just cool.
NOTE CONF
Just an idea.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I know that lots of people are still eating lunch,
but we'll get started so that we can leave on
NOTE CONF
time, which is always an advantage.
I hope this is.
NOTE CONF
Fun.
Uh, there's that one.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
This one?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Okay, great.
NOTE CONF
So settle down.
I'm glad to see most people come back.
NOTE CONF
So I hope you enjoyed lunch.
Okay, that was chaos.
NOTE CONF
Next time we do this, I'm going to make sure
there's at least, like, 3 or 4 different tables.
NOTE CONF
So not everyone's in the same queue.
So I'm sorry that you had to spend ages hanging
NOTE CONF
around, but hopefully everybody got a sandwich.
Almost everyone's back in.
NOTE CONF
Um, so let's get on with session.
Awesome.
NOTE CONF
Someone was just looking for a bin.
I don't think there are any in here.
NOTE CONF
So, just as a note, when you're leaving, if you
could take everything with us, it stops us from getting
NOTE CONF
into trouble with whoever is in the room next, so
that'd be great.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
If anyone asks.
NOTE CONF
You didn't have any food?
No.
NOTE CONF
No food here.
Cool.
NOTE CONF
Fav.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Right in.
Front of the.
NOTE CONF
Maybe it's an experimental sandwich.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Great.
So just to bring us back into what we're doing,
NOTE CONF
having told you before the break to stop talking over
each other, I'm now going to tell you to talk
NOTE CONF
over each other.
So what I would like everyone to do, probably not
NOTE CONF
of your mouth is full of sandwich is.
Take a minute and I'm going to start a timer.
NOTE CONF
And I want everybody to talk over each other and
do a really weird exercise, which is using different parts
NOTE CONF
of your brain.
So what I want you to do is point at
NOTE CONF
something and say something else.
So I might point at the ceiling and say floor.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to point at Fiona and say, Tuesday.
I'm going to put it in the computer and I'm
NOTE CONF
going to say water bottle.
Get the idea?
NOTE CONF
So we are switching our brains in a different way.
We're doing something the verbal equivalent of patting your head
NOTE CONF
and rubbing your tummy.
We're going to talk over each other, so it's going
NOTE CONF
to be really noisy for a minute.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Few nods.
Okay, I will press the button.
NOTE CONF
Let's go.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Awesome.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
Bit of a weird one to break up the lunchtime
chat.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
So we're going to move on to that problem definition,
part of that cycle that we were thinking about before.
NOTE CONF
I will put it on display mode.
We're going to move on to that problem definition part
NOTE CONF
that was on before.
So we're thinking about once we have empathised with our
NOTE CONF
user and the activity, the activities we did today so
far are about understanding what's going on for you, what's
NOTE CONF
important, what's memorable, what's meaningful.
But also we then started to think about, well, why
NOTE CONF
are we here?
What's the problem that we're trying to solve?
NOTE CONF
So has anybody oh, I'd like to just take a
minute to write down or think of something that you
NOTE CONF
are stuck on right now.
You probably won't need to share this in its entirety
NOTE CONF
with everyone else, so you can be honest.
So it could be something to do with your studies,
NOTE CONF
or your work life, or your social life, or a
hobby or something, but something that you at the moment
NOTE CONF
you're thinking, I don't know what to do about this.
I don't know what decision to make.
NOTE CONF
So just take a minute.
I'll just take a minute to jot that one down.
NOTE CONF
No, no, I can.
Do a lot more work.
NOTE CONF
First few did.
Though.
NOTE CONF
It was weird.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
The.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
The one with the fish.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So you've got a page in your workbook.
You've got a page.
NOTE CONF
And at the top you've got a space to write
this problem down.
NOTE CONF
So write it down on that page.
Again a personal problem you'll get to talk to about
NOTE CONF
it.
Two other people not doesn't need to be a personal
NOTE CONF
problem, but a problem that is personal to you.
So write that down.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Great.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So has anybody.
NOTE CONF
Has anyone ever heard.
Has anyone ever said this to you?
NOTE CONF
Has anyone ever said something like, well, in order to
get a great job, you need to have an internship.
NOTE CONF
That's the only way that you're going to get a
great job if you're in the School of Informatics.
NOTE CONF
Few nods there.
That's something that you might have heard a few kind
NOTE CONF
of shaking hands up.
Definitely.
NOTE CONF
You've heard that.
You've heard that idea that there was one way to
NOTE CONF
get through a degree there.
Sometimes you're an expectation that actually I just need to
NOTE CONF
get the best grades.
That will be fine if I get on top of
NOTE CONF
the class in the grades that I am, then everything
else will fall into line for me.
NOTE CONF
But if you take that idea that there is one
kind of perfect way of going through university and all
NOTE CONF
you need to do is just find it and then
everything in your life will magically fall into place.
NOTE CONF
That's actually reasonably intimidating because it's like you're stumbling around
in the dark going, well, how can I find this
NOTE CONF
magical right thing?
This direct route that's going to take me into this
NOTE CONF
job that I'm thinking about, or this life or this
happiness that I'm working towards.
NOTE CONF
And sometimes that can be a bit intimidating.
And what we want to think about actually is rather
NOTE CONF
than saying, how do I find the perfect view or
the perfect route for university?
NOTE CONF
Let me think about the layers that might be important
when making the decisions about what's what's useful.
NOTE CONF
Now having just had two videos that didn't play.
Wish me lots of luck on this.
NOTE CONF
And this is a recording from the philosopher Alan Watts,
and you may notice that the graphics share some similarity
NOTE CONF
with SouthPark, so we'll go with that.
It's just a really quick video introducing a concept that
NOTE CONF
we're going to talk about a bit.
In music, one doesn't make the end of a composition.
NOTE CONF
The point of the composition.
If that was so, the best conductors would be those
NOTE CONF
who play faster.
And there would be composers who wrote only finales.
NOTE CONF
People would go to concerts.
Just the one crashing chord, because that's the end.
NOTE CONF
But we don't see that as something brought by our
education into our everyday conduct.
NOTE CONF
We've got a system of schooling which gives a completely
different impression.
NOTE CONF
It's all graded, and what we do is we put
the child into the corridor of this grade system with
NOTE CONF
a kind of Come.
On, kitty, kitty, kitty.
NOTE CONF
And ah, you go to kindergarten, you know, and that's
the great thing, because when you finish that, you'll get
NOTE CONF
in the first grade and then come on, first grade
leads the second grade and so on.
NOTE CONF
And then you get out of grade school and you've
got high school and it's revving up.
NOTE CONF
The thing is coming.
Then you're going to go to college and buy a
NOTE CONF
job.
Then you get into graduate school, and when you're through
NOTE CONF
with graduate school, you go out and join the world,
and then you get into some racket where you're selling
NOTE CONF
insurance and they've got that quota to make, and you're
going to make that.
NOTE CONF
And all the time the thing is coming, it's coming,
it's coming.
NOTE CONF
That great thing, the success you're working for.
Then when you wake up one day about 40 years
NOTE CONF
old, you say, My God, I've arrived.
I'm there.
NOTE CONF
And you don't feel very different from what you always
felt.
NOTE CONF
And there's a slight letdown because you feel there's a
hoax.
NOTE CONF
And there was a hoax, a dreadful hoax.
They made you miss everything.
NOTE CONF
We thought of life by analogy with a journey, with
a pilgrimage which had a serious purpose at the end.
NOTE CONF
And the thing was to get to that end.
Success or whatever it is.
NOTE CONF
Or maybe heaven after you're dead.
But we missed the point the whole way along.
NOTE CONF
It was a musical thing, and you were supposed to
sing or to dance while the music was being played.
NOTE CONF
Outro music.
Is that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Had anyone seen that before?
NOTE CONF
What did you think?
Did that resonate with anyone?
NOTE CONF
Does anyone feel that pull towards something?
I've got to get this great thing.
NOTE CONF
I've got to lead towards this successful thing, whatever it
is.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
There's quite a lot of nods there, especially with people
NOTE CONF
eating sandwiches.
So I'm not going to ask you to expand on
NOTE CONF
it a little bit more, But I think that whole
idea that we're here for a purpose, that we're trying
NOTE CONF
to move through without getting too philosophical about it, can
actually start to define the way that we live our
NOTE CONF
lives and the opportunities that we choose to look for
or that we don't look for.
NOTE CONF
So actually, we just want to think about, well, what
can we do about that if we're coming in and
NOTE CONF
we're thinking, well, I'm being really driven by this, something
that I'm supposed to be doing in the future, that
NOTE CONF
I'm moving towards something.
What can we actually do to start focusing on the
NOTE CONF
things that we can control and the things that we
can take action on?
NOTE CONF
So thinking like a designer, how do we build our
way forward rather than following this magical, predetermined path?
NOTE CONF
So we get this kind of dysfunctional belief here.
So dysfunctional belief.
NOTE CONF
We're basically saying anything that you believe or you think,
which is stopping you from taking action or stopping you
NOTE CONF
from feeling in control of your life.
So we've got this dysfunctional belief and we want to
NOTE CONF
reframe it.
So any one of us seen an artist or a
NOTE CONF
photographer kind of walking around here trying to put different
things in that act of reframing something.
NOTE CONF
Do we put in more of the background or less
of it?
NOTE CONF
Do we focus on one person or another?
Do we consider the context, or do we go for
NOTE CONF
a close up that enables us to look at a
situation differently?
NOTE CONF
So we're using this kind of analogy of reframing.
So a reframe of this dysfunctional belief of I need
NOTE CONF
to find out the best route through university, because that's
the only thing that's going to be successful.
NOTE CONF
We reframe that and we say, well, actually there are
multiple options.
NOTE CONF
There are lots of ways that I could build my
way forward into university and beyond.
NOTE CONF
So another dysfunctional belief that I hear quite a lot
in in the 1 to 1 appointments that I do,
NOTE CONF
internships are only open to second and third year students.
I can't get any experience this year.
NOTE CONF
And actually, if you reframe that to think about, well,
something that's called a formal internship, or maybe those programs
NOTE CONF
are mostly open for students, let's say, between third year
and fourth year.
NOTE CONF
But that doesn't mean there aren't things that you can
do to build experience, to understand what might be right,
NOTE CONF
might be right for you.
And by saying, well, I can't do that.
NOTE CONF
You're closing off options and by reframing it and saying,
well, how can I build these opportunities?
NOTE CONF
How can I build experience?
You're then building up layers of experience that are going
NOTE CONF
to be helpful for you.
So final one there.
NOTE CONF
So dysfunctional belief.
My coding skills are really strong compared to my classmates.
NOTE CONF
So that's it.
I'm going to find it really easy to get a
NOTE CONF
job, and I'm going to find it really easy to
progress.
NOTE CONF
And possibly for some people that's the case.
But in most scenarios, if you have that as your
NOTE CONF
central belief that because I'm great at one particular thing
or because my technical skills are really strong, everything's going
NOTE CONF
to be easy for me.
You're missing opportunities to develop different skills and experiences, to
NOTE CONF
explore things that you might even be better at than
this technical skill that you've decided as your expertise.
NOTE CONF
And actually, when you're thinking about what employers are interested
in, sometimes it's that technical skill set, but sometimes it's
NOTE CONF
everything else that goes around that it's your ability to
work with other people and your ability to solve problems
NOTE CONF
that's important.
If you choose to cut yourself off from experiences that
NOTE CONF
will help to develop, that, you might be limiting your
options.
NOTE CONF
Can I can I just jump in there?
Because one dysfunctional belief that I see a lot in
NOTE CONF
first year students with the ones who have less coding,
is that it's such a steep hill to climb, and
NOTE CONF
you're never going to catch up with the people who
are who are really good at coding.
NOTE CONF
And I think that's a totally dysfunctional belief, because for
a start, that in itself isn't true.
NOTE CONF
And and you do catch up and some of our
strongest students haven't got that experience to begin with, but
NOTE CONF
also because you haven't been doing computing in schools, you've
been doing other things.
NOTE CONF
And sometimes your your, your broader skills are really strong.
So, you know, it does create challenges, but it's certainly
NOTE CONF
so it's yeah, it's about reframing that that creates challenges.
But the dysfunctional belief is that you're always going to
NOTE CONF
be a step behind, and it's going to be harder
for you ultimately.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, yeah.
And I think anything we cross, anything is a dysfunctional
NOTE CONF
belief.
If it stops you from doing something, if it stops
NOTE CONF
you from taking action.
If you were saying, I'm never going to be as
NOTE CONF
good as the person next to me, what's the point
in trying?
NOTE CONF
You're cutting off opportunities for things that you could do.
So what I'd like you to do is to consider
NOTE CONF
the problem that you've written down and think about first.
What type of problem is this?
NOTE CONF
So are you dealing with an anchor problem?
We have a nice little animation put together by the
NOTE CONF
intern we had last summer who designed our graphics, which
I think is quite nice.
NOTE CONF
So are you dealing with an anchor problem?
So an anchor problem is something that you can free
NOTE CONF
yourself from.
You can cut the chain of the anchor and you
NOTE CONF
can sail off into the sunset.
So an anchor problem is something that essentially is fixable.
NOTE CONF
But we also have.
gravity problems and gravity problems are things that.
NOTE CONF
However hard you try, you will never be able to
fix them.
NOTE CONF
So, for example, and I think I've got this example
on the next slide as well.
NOTE CONF
But if Google has a hiring freeze, there is very
little that you can do as an individual to get
NOTE CONF
hired in the middle of a hiring freeze.
If the industry or the sector that you work in
NOTE CONF
has disappeared because technology has replaced the function that people
used to do, there's probably not much you can do
NOTE CONF
as an individual to focus on that.
So what?
NOTE CONF
So I'm just going to put up a few different
problems.
NOTE CONF
And I'd like you to just think about are these
gravity problems.
NOTE CONF
So something that could be fixed.
Something that I could move away from.
NOTE CONF
Or are they no other way around.
Are they gravity problems?
NOTE CONF
Something that is inevitable?
You cannot fight the forces of nature?
NOTE CONF
Or are they anchor problems that you could action?
So classic one.
NOTE CONF
I have heard this quite a lot.
I don't have time to practice leetcode.
NOTE CONF
I'll never pass an internship assessment.
So hands up if you think that is a gravity
NOTE CONF
problem.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And hands up if you think it's an anchor problem.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Great.
I think that one probably is an anchor problem.
NOTE CONF
And the angle that you take is quite interesting because
you could probably make time if you tried hard enough.
NOTE CONF
You could find or make time to practice that thing.
You could probably also look at organisations that don't use
NOTE CONF
leetcode and assessments.
You could start to talk to people where the relationship
NOTE CONF
you have with them as an individual is going to
be more important than the way that you're testing, the
NOTE CONF
way that they might test for technical skill sets.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Only people with PhDs work in machine learning.
Anchor problem.
NOTE CONF
Gravity problem.
So who thinks it's an anchor problem and who thinks
NOTE CONF
it's a gravity problem?
And to a degree, you're probably both right.
NOTE CONF
Actually, there are some roles where at the moment, those
roles are being done by people who have PhDs.
NOTE CONF
It doesn't mean that will always be the case, but
it might always be the case.
NOTE CONF
And sometimes actually, whether something is a gravity problem or
an anchor problem is always going to depend on the
NOTE CONF
context or the circumstances in which you're working with.
Hiring freeze at Google.
NOTE CONF
I already told you the answer to that, but anyone
think that that's an anchor problem?
NOTE CONF
Because if you do and you have a solution, then
everyone wants to hear about it.
NOTE CONF
That would be awesome thing to market.
And the final one here, I want to live in
NOTE CONF
the Highlands, but I can't drive.
Anchor problem or gravity problem?
NOTE CONF
Anchor problem.
Gravity problem.
NOTE CONF
Which is why you can't drive.
Exactly.
NOTE CONF
And I think that's the thing.
So you could learn to drive.
NOTE CONF
But if you have a medical condition that means you
can't learn to drive, then for you it might be
NOTE CONF
a gravity problem.
You could work remotely and live in the Highlands, in
NOTE CONF
which case you could just stay at home.
Or you could think about other ways you could live
NOTE CONF
on a bus route.
So sometimes something is going to be an anchor problem.
NOTE CONF
Sometimes it will be a gravity problem.
So I want you to go back and look at
NOTE CONF
the problem that you wrote down before.
And I want you to do two things.
NOTE CONF
And the first one is say, is this for me
right now?
NOTE CONF
Is this a gravity problem or an anchor problem?
So what's going on here?
NOTE CONF
Is this something I can fix?
And then the second thing I want you to do
NOTE CONF
is rewrite that problem, starting with the sentence.
How might I?
NOTE CONF
So if you'd started your sentence with I can't find
any work experience for this summer, then just rephrase it
NOTE CONF
to how might I find some work experience for this
summer?
NOTE CONF
I can't choose from the courses that are available to
me.
NOTE CONF
How might I make that choice?
Anyone got any questions on that?
NOTE CONF
Okay, so I will set my phone timer for that
because the others are broken anyway.
NOTE CONF
I'll just give you two minutes, notice what kind of
problem it is and reframe it.
NOTE CONF
In fact, one minute.
I think we're short for time.
NOTE CONF
Exactly.
Are we going to do it?
NOTE CONF
Yeah, I think so.
So the part that we probably won't have time.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Now, if if lunch hadn't been squished into a small
NOTE CONF
corridor on one table, what I would have asked you
to do now is to take your problem and to
NOTE CONF
find a group of people that you don't know and
ask them your question.
NOTE CONF
So how might I and what I really want you
to do after you leave this session in between before
NOTE CONF
when we meet again, which is in week eight, go
and ask some people that question.
NOTE CONF
So how might I meet Fiona in the corridor?
Ask her.
NOTE CONF
Exactly.
I have, you know, a really interesting lecture somewhere else.
NOTE CONF
Hang about and ask someone else who's running it.
And, you know, if you're perhaps at a SOC event,
NOTE CONF
ask someone who's doing something different or interest to you.
Ask people that you meet in every area of your
NOTE CONF
life over the next few weeks.
How might I address this problem?
NOTE CONF
So we'll just whip through the end of the session
so that everyone leads on time, because hopefully the how
NOTE CONF
might that how did you find that when we've run
that activity in different sessions, people have come back with
NOTE CONF
real ideas.
They've got really good ideas from the person sitting next
NOTE CONF
to you that they haven't thought about.
So I'd really urge you to take a little bit
NOTE CONF
of time and ask two people that question.
So I'm setting you optional homework, which is always optional
NOTE CONF
for what I would really like you to do is
to go back and look at those experience maps, to
NOTE CONF
think about what you've done before, and then to try
and fill in that thin column at the end.
NOTE CONF
So that column at the end is for future possibilities.
So thinking about what do you want to do in
NOTE CONF
the future?
What do you want to do while you're at university,
NOTE CONF
and if you can come back with a few ideas,
then we'll be able to build on that next time.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to flash up this slide for you.
Here is a list of some of the ideas that
NOTE CONF
I have had.
But it's not even slightly comprehensive.
NOTE CONF
It's just a tapping at the surface of all of
the things you could do to explore your future possibilities,
NOTE CONF
future curiosities, or things that might be possible for you.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
A few photos.
Of that.
NOTE CONF
But you always send it.
Out.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
We'll also send that slide out so you'll have it
NOTE CONF
with you.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So in the next session, if you've had a little
bit of time to fill out that curiosity column, you'll
NOTE CONF
get a little bit more time to expand on your
ideas, to ask other people for help and work out
NOTE CONF
three possible ways that you might use your time at
university.
NOTE CONF
What I'd really like you to do before we go
is this is the first time that we have run
NOTE CONF
the session like this for first year students within object
oriented programming.
NOTE CONF
It's the first time we've run a session like this
with this many people in this kind of room.
NOTE CONF
It would be really helpful if you could take a
couple of minutes to complete this exit ticket and tell
NOTE CONF
us what you thought, what we can change, and then
it helps us to shape the session that we run
NOTE CONF
next time so that it's going to be useful and
helpful for you.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
And then whenever they've done that, anytime.
NOTE CONF
Thanks for coming along to that.
Awesome.
NOTE CONF
So thanks for coming along.
I hope you found that helpful.
NOTE CONF
So we're back to normal timetable from B until week
eight, Monday and week eight.
NOTE CONF
We're going to have the follow up of the session,
which I think you all find really useful.
NOTE CONF
Putting all those ideas into practice.
Um, but from but other than that, we're just back
NOTE CONF
to normal in from be teaching.
So come along to my office hour.
NOTE CONF
I'm bringing Oreos, and I will see you either this
afternoon or on Thursday.
NOTE CONF
Oh, and also feel free to take any of the
food if it's still there.
NOTE CONF
It's probably hoovered up by other people, but take whatever
you want.
NOTE CONF
If it's still there.
And take your rubbish with.
NOTE CONF
You.
And please take your rubbish out of the lecture theatre
NOTE CONF
and put it in the bins if there's any space
left in the bins.
NOTE CONF
If the bins are completely overflowing, put the rubbish on
the tables.
NOTE CONF
Oh, I'll leave that for a bit.
Um, well.
NOTE CONF
Uh.